docs/vault-secrets-operator: aws vaultauth (#23982)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/platform/k8s/vso/auth/aws.mdx

Author: Ok, I moved this to be under Sources.

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Secrets Operator AWS Auth
description: >-

>   The Vault Secrets Operator supports authenticating to Vault with the AWS auth method

Author: It's meant to be more of a technical overview, so changed as suggested.

---

# AWS auth method support

> The Vault Secrets Operator (VSO) supports authenticating to Vault's [AWS auth](/vault/docs/auth/aws) method. AWS credentials can be retrieved in several ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Vault Secrets Operator (VSO) supports
 [AWS authentication](/vault/docs/auth/aws) when accessing Vault. VSO
 can retrieve AWS credentials:
```

Style correction: write in active voice, avoid possessives, make it clear what takes action

> - From an [IRSA-enabled Kubernetes service account][aws-irsa]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- from an [IRSA-enabled Kubernetes service account][aws-irsa].
```
Style correction: use lower-case and a period for the list item since it completes the introductory sentence

> - Inferred from the underlying EKS node role or EC2 instance profile of the instance where the operator pod is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- by inferring credentials from the underlying EKS node role.
- by inferring credentials from the EC2 instance profile of the instance
   where the operator pod is running.
```
Style correction: write in the active voice, use one idea per sentence. The instance profile example is particularly hard for the reader to parse. Moving that idea to its own line helps with understanding.

> - Specified as a static access key id and secret key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- from an explicitly provided static access key id and secret key.
```
Style correction: keep list item structures consistent

> The examples below illustrate how to configure a Vault role and the corresponding VaultAuth for the possible AWS auth scenarios with the operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples illustrate how to configure a Vault role and the corresponding VaultAuth profile in VSO for different AWS authentication scenarios.
```
Style correction: write in active voice

## IRSA

> See Amazons's [IAM roles for service accounts][aws-irsa] for information on enabling authentication using IRSA on an EKS cluster, including how to add an OIDC provider and allow a Kubernetes service account to assume an IAM role. If using Terraform, the AWS [EKS module](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-aws-modules/eks/aws/latest) has support for [IRSA integration](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-eks/blob/master/docs/irsa_integration.md) with the [IRSA submodule](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws/latest/submodules/iam-role-for-service-accounts-eks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the Amazon documentation for [IAM roles for service accounts][aws-irsa]
   to add an OIDC provider so your Kubernetes service account can assume an IAM
   role.
```

Style correction: Make steps easy to identify, one idea per sentence

> <CodeTabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an appropriate authentication role in your Vault instance:

<CodeTabs>
```

Style correction: introduce/explain example code before presenting it

<CodeBlockConfig>

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/aws/role/<VAULT_AWS_IRSA_ROLE> \
    auth_type="iam" \
    policies="default" \
    bound_iam_principal_arn="arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/<IAM_IRSA_ROLE>"
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
<CodeBlockConfig>

```hcl
resource "vault_aws_auth_backend_role" "aws_irsa_role" {
  backend   = "auth/aws"
  role      = <VAULT_AWS_IRSA_ROLE>
  auth_type      = "iam"
  token_policies = ["default"]
  bound_iam_principal_arns = [
    "arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/<IAM_IRSA_ROLE>",
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</CodeTabs>

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ````suggestion
1. Create the corresponding authentication entry in VSO:

```yaml
````

Style correction: introduce/explain example code before presenting it

apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: VaultAuth
metadata:
  name: vaultauth-aws-irsa-example
  namespace: <K8S_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  vaultConnectionRef: <VAULT_CONNECTION_NAME>
  mount: aws
  method: aws
  aws:
    role: <VAULT_AWS_IRSA_ROLE>
    region: <AWS_REGION>
    irsaServiceAccount: <SERVICE_ACCOUNT>
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<Tip title="Terraform has built-in IRSA support">

  If you use Terraform to manage your Elastic Kubernetes (EKS) cluster, the
  [AWS EKS module](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-aws-modules/eks/aws/latest)
  includes IRSA support  through the 
  [IRSA submodule](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-aws-modules/iam/aws/latest/submodules/iam-role-for-service-accounts-eks).

</Tip>

```

## Node role

> <CodeTabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an appropriate authentication role in your Vault instance:

<CodeTabs>
```

<CodeBlockConfig>

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/aws/role/<VAULT_AWS_NODE_ROLE> \
    auth_type="iam" \
    policies="default" \
    bound_iam_principal_arn="arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/eks-nodes-<EKS_CLUSTER_NAME>"
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
<CodeBlockConfig>

```hcl
resource "vault_aws_auth_backend_role" "aws_node_role" {
  backend   = "auth/aws"
  role      = <VAULT_AWS_NODE_ROLE>
  auth_type      = "iam"
  token_policies = ["default"]
  bound_iam_principal_arns = [
    "arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/eks-nodes-<EKS_CLUSTER_NAME>",
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</CodeTabs>

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ````suggestion
1. Create the corresponding authentication entry in VSO:

```yaml
````

apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: VaultAuth
metadata:
  name: vaultauth-aws-node-example
  namespace: <K8S_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  vaultConnectionRef: <VAULT_CONNECTION_NAME>
  mount: aws
  method: aws
  aws:
    role: <VAULT_AWS_NODE_ROLE>
    region: <AWS_REGION>
```

## Instance profile

> <CodeTabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an appropriate authentication role in your Vault instance:

<CodeTabs>
```

<CodeBlockConfig>

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/aws/role/<VAULT_AWS_INSTANCE_ROLE> \
    auth_type="iam" \
    policies="default" \
    inferred_entity_type="ec2_instance" \
    inferred_aws_region=-"<AWS_REGION>" \
    bound_account_id="<ACCOUNT_ID>" \
    bound_iam_principal_arn="arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:instance-profile/eks-<INSTANCE_PROFILE_UUID>"
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
<CodeBlockConfig>

```hcl
resource "vault_aws_auth_backend_role" "aws_node_role" {
  backend                  = "auth/aws"
  role                     = <VAULT_AWS_INSTANCE_ROLE>
  auth_type                = "iam"
  token_policies           = ["default"]
  inferred_entity_type     = "ec2_instance"
  inferred_aws_region      = "<AWS_REGION>"
  bound_account_ids        = ["<ACCOUNT_ID>"]
  bound_iam_principal_arns = [
    "arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/eks-nodes-<EKS_CLUSTER_NAME>",
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</CodeTabs>

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ````suggestion
1. Create the corresponding authentication entry in VSO:

```yaml
````

apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: VaultAuth
metadata:
  name: vaultauth-aws-instance-example
  namespace: <K8S_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  vaultConnectionRef: <VAULT_CONNECTION_NAME>
  mount: aws
  method: aws
  aws:
    role: <VAULT_AWS_INSTANCE_ROLE>
    region: <AWS_REGION>
```

## Static credentials

> <CodeTabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an appropriate authentication role in your Vault instance:

<CodeTabs>
```

<CodeBlockConfig>

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/aws/role/<VAULT_AWS_STATIC_ROLE> \
    auth_type="iam" \
    policies="default" \
    bound_iam_principal_arn="arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/<IAM_ROLE>"
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
<CodeBlockConfig>

```hcl
resource "vault_aws_auth_backend_role" "aws_static_role" {
  backend   = "auth/aws"
  role      = <VAULT_AWS_STATIC_ROLE>
  auth_type      = "iam"
  token_policies = ["default"]
  bound_iam_principal_arns = [
    "arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/<IAM_ROLE>",
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</CodeTabs>

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ````suggestion
1. Create the corresponding authentication entry in VSO:

```yaml
````

apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: aws-static-creds
  namespace: <K8S_NAMESPACE>
data:
  access_key_id: <AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
  secret_access_key: <AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
  session_token: <AWS_SESSION_TOKEN>  # session_token is optional
---
apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: VaultAuth
metadata:
  name: vaultauth-aws-static-example
  namespace: <K8S_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  vaultConnectionRef: <VAULT_CONNECTION_NAME>
  mount: aws
  method: aws
  aws:
    role: <VAULT_AWS_STATIC_ROLE>
    region: <AWS_REGION>
    secretRef: aws-static-creds
```

# API

> See the full list of AWS VaultAuth options on the [API page](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/api-reference#vaultauthconfigaws).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the full list of AWS VaultAuth options on the [VSO API page](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/api-reference#vaultauthconfigaws).
```
